Create Ice Age EIP (#4345)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4345.md

---
eip: 4345
title: Difficulty Bomb Delay to April 2022

> description: Delays the difficulty bomb to show effect in April 2022.

Reviewer: I think this could be slightly clearer. Maybe something like "until April 2022" or "take effect in April 2022".

Author: Changed, along with the actual month to better describe when the bomb will actually be noticeable.

Reviewer: ty

author: Tim Beiko (@timbeiko)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4345-difficulty-bomb-delay-to-may-2022/7209
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2021-10-05
---

## Abstract
Starting with `FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER` the client will calculate the difficulty based on a fake block number suggesting to the client that the difficulty bomb is adjusting 10,500,000 blocks later than the actual block number.

## Motivation
Targeting for the Shanghai upgrade and/or the Merge to occur before May 2022. Either the bomb can be readjusted at that time, or removed all together.

## Specification
#### Relax Difficulty with Fake Block Number
For the purposes of `calc_difficulty`, simply replace the use of `block.number`, as used in the exponential ice age component, with the formula:
```py
    fake_block_number = max(0, block.number - 10_500_000) if block.number >= FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER else block.number
```
## Rationale

> The following script predicts a .25 second delay to blocktime May 2022 and a 1 second delay by June. This gives reason to address because the effect will be seen, but not so much urgency we don't have space to work around if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following script predicts a 0.25 second delay to block time May 2022 and a 1 second delay by June. This gives reason to address because the effect will be seen, but not so much urgency we don't have space to work around if needed.
```

---
eip: 4345
title: Difficulty Bomb Delay to April 2022
author: Tim Beiko (@timbeiko)

> discussions-to: TBA

Reviewer: Will need a discussion link before merging.

Author: That's fixed now :-)

status: Final
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2021-10-05
---

## Simple Summary

> Delays the difficulty bomb to show effect in April 2022.

Reviewer: This section has been deprecated in favor of the `description` preamble field. Please see the `eip-template.md` to see how it's used.

Author: Fixed, thanks!
